Hi guys, and welcome back.
In this video we're going to learn about booleans.
In Python, we've got true and false values,
and they're used to make decisions.
For example; is the user's age over 35?
That could be a comparison that
we evaluate to True or False.
In Python, the keywords are True, with a capital T
and False with a capital F.
Here, I've created two variables,
one of them called truthy and that has a True value
and one called falsy and that has a False value.
But, on their own, this is kind of pointless
because what can you use True for,
there's not much use for just something True.
But, when you've got a number,
you can then say whether A's over age
and type age greater than or equal to 18.
So here we've got our first boolean comparison.
We've got the variable, then we've got an equal sign
which means that this variable is going
to be a name for this value here.
And the value is age greater than or equal to 18.
This here is a boolean comparison
and it evaluates to True because 20
is greater than or equal to 18.
So doing this here is exactly the same as doing True.
We can have A's under age, which means
age is less than 18,
and here this would be False because age is 20
so 20 is not less than 18, this would be False.
Do not that I'm not doing age less than or equal to 18
as when you are 18 you are allegedly over age
in most countries, so this one has to be less than only.
Finally, you can also check whether A is 20
for example, and type age equal equal 20.
Now, this can get a bit confusing because
you now have three equal signs in one line.
When you have a single equal sign,
that is used for assignment.
What it says is this value here,
we're gonna give it this name.
So, we will calculate the value first,
and then put the name and give it to it.
Two equal signs is not used for assignment;
it is used for comparison.
What it means is exactly equal to.
So what it's saying is, is the age variable
exactly equal to 20?
And the answer is yes.
So this whole thing here actually evaluates to True.
Other symbols that you can use are of course
greater than on it's own, and less than
or equal to like that.
Let's create a simple programme that will ask
the user for a number and then we will tell them
whether it matches our magic number.
So we will have our number, which is five,
and then we will ask the user for a number,
like that, and then we will say
my number equal to user number.
So, as long as they enter five,
this will be True, and if they enter anything
else, then it is False.
To make this a little bit better,
you can create a new variable, which has the value
of whether it matches or not.
And then you can use an F string to say,
"You got it right" matches.
And then if we run this, and we type five,
you say, "You got it right" True.
Later on in the course, we're going to learn how to say,
"You got it right" or "You got it wrong".
But at the moment we really can't do that.
We need something called an 'if statement'
in order to be able to do that
and we're going to learn about that
in the next section.
But for now, you have the ability to get
information from the user, and compare it to
something that you already have.
And then determine one thing or another,
whether something is True or False.
In the next video, we will learn more
about working with booleans,
and making our programmes much more flexible.
I'll see you there.